As years have passed with using interfaces, certain ‘ideals’ have been developed, such as a line shape can be interpreted as an area for user input. It is also vital in any design to adhere to these basic standards. The size of an element can help to help the user interpret how important an element is, just from a quick glance. When a user is observing various elements, they will automatically compare the sizes and likelihood is their eye will be drawn to the largest element first. In a body of text, the notions of headings and subtitles are used to represent the importance and a certain type of hierarchy of information. In many modern interfaces, on a login page, the ‘Register’ button is usually the largest, as a means to encourage more users to click on the button and therefore register with the enterprise. 

Colour can have a massive impact on an interface, as it is very easily distinguishable for the human eye, even for children. For this reason, it is so often utilised in learning environments. Various shades of colours and hues can be used to, as Cooper [2] referred to it as, a ‘visual system’, to help the user distinguish between similarities and differences. Certain colours have certain connotations attached to them, such as red has the meaning of negative, which is why it is often used to represent errors or cancel buttons. On the other hand, we can argue that we have this idea in our head because of day to day idea, such as stop signs or traffic lights. In other parts of the world, they may not have these ideals and therefore colour is not a good idea to rely on, to convey a message. In addition to this, colour blindness can mean that certain users are not able to get the full use out of a system. The orientation of an interface can help to provide the idea of a flow or direction for the user. Providing that a user is completing a form in a mobile phone application, in a portrait orientation, the user will naturally complete the form going from the top to bottom. Using icons which are pointing in a left or right direction can also help to direct the user, such as a ‘Next’ button. Even small aspects of a system, such as a scroll bar can help give the user a sense of direction.
