Continuing on, Toledo [5] suggests that specific colours can convey various emotions to the user. For example, using a bold red colour can symbolise power and passion, which is perhaps suitable for a campaign website. Orange is a bright and vibrant colour, which can be used to gain immediate attention. The colour can also be seen as somewhat energetic and much less ‘aggressive’ than red. Yellow has similar characteristics to orange, wherein it can be used to demand attention. However, using yellow in a design should be done sparingly as it can be overwhelming, when used in large quantities, or hard to read text over it. Shades of greens and blues can be seen as quite calming colours, which are suitable for most situations. 

On the other hand, Rocheleau [6] argues that emotions through colour is highly subjective and personal, so should not be used as a sole method to convey a specific message to the audience. It can be argued that a more important characteristic of colour is the value, which is the measure of dark to light on the spectrum. This value is what helps to define and help users compare elements to each other, which in turn creates a sense of hierarchy and order on the interface. The saturation of colour is the level of vibrancy of a colour. By a general rule, a colour being used for a large portion of the interface should not too vibrant, as it can be too overwhelming for the user. In Rocheleau’s words, a more “washed” out colour is more effective. When in confusion about a colour system, it may be useful to resort to a black and white scheme, to ensure readability of the theme itself. This can also be a useful way to evaluate if the interface has suitable levels of contrast. 

In addition to all of these complex considerations one must take when deciding on colours for an interface, it is also suggested by some designers that pure black should not be used in large quantities. Ian Storm Taylor [7] presented the idea in an article wherein he came to the realisation that in real life, nothing is truly black, it is just a very dark colour. One example of this are shadows, which are not truly black. Seen in the artist, Wayne Thiebaud’s [8] work, who is well renown for his shadow work, we see that in his paintings the shadows are never truly black. Instead, there are tints of various other colours in the shadows, such as blues.  One can question if the art matters if it depicts real life, do our interfaces also? In order for interfaces to feel real to a user and relate, we must adopt these day-to-day ideals and attempt to apply them, as best we can. As a result, we should not use pure black in our interfaces, but very dark grey colours, as a replacement. 
