From a young age, having taking an interest in art, the idea of colour theory and any form of design has always been somewhat on my mind. I spent a considerable amount of my childhood drawing and painting, which led me onto a somewhat more creative choice in my GCSE and A Level options. During my art GCSE, I quickly discovered a fierce passion for design through Photoshop, which I tried to incorporate into my art, as often as I could. In addition to this, I took GCSE Graphics, wherein I learn about the depth of colour theory and design, in a more commercial sense. A combination of these GCSE’s allowed me to pick up a skill set which came to peak in my art A Level. My coursework was always very photography and photoshop heavy, which led me on to website design. A lot of my free time was spent messing around with HTML and CSS, as I thoroughly enjoyed designing websites.

As mentioned previously, the aspect of ‘good design’ has always been on my mind. I knew from a young age that I would pursue a career in design, but in what aspect I was not sure. During the course of this degree and taking a human computer interaction module, last year, it only solidified my aspirations to have a career in this field. My love for programming, but also art and design, has always allowed me to have a different approach to how I solve a task. I have always leaned towards more visual tasks, such as the modules of ‘Game Design’ and ‘Visual and Exploratory Analysis’. To put it simply, I have a strong passion for creating something. I enjoy the rigorous process of designing and interface and have it fully implemented, to see the end result. I have spent hours, late at night, exploring photoshop and learning about various CSS tricks. I also wanted to learn something entirely new, which is what I would get from creating a mobile application. My choice of project was one that I carried out without hesitation, as this study was of course an excellent knowledge to further my knowledge on the subject. 
